[Music]
if you get this message delete it
immediately
do you have whatsapp on your smartphone
if so you are one of the 1 billion
people who live in 180 countries and
chose whatsapp as their communication
platform free calls and messages photos
videos and documents exchanged
what can be wrong with it well scammers
also like the most popular messaging
application in the world and they have
their own reasons every once in a while
they came up with a new fraud strategy
affecting whatsapp users they misuse the
app to spread scams viruses and hoax
messages with such a large amount of
people who love and trust the app they
actually have a very high chance of
getting a huge profit out of it
Brightside does not want you to be one
of those people who fall prey to online
scammers in fact we want to stop it all
together and you can contribute by not
only watching this video yourself but
sharing it with your friends and just
everyone you know watch this video till
the end to find out what dangerous
message you should delete immediately
and how to protect yourself from
whatsapp scams give us a thumbs up if
you agree it's important to stay alert
to keep your smartphone and bank details
secure
and it's nearly ten years of history
whatsapp has become a target of scammers
quite a few times if you have been with
it for a while you probably remember
some of them
[Music]
in spring 2016
for example whatsapp users were invited
to download the exclusive version of the
app called whatsapp gold it promised
future users the ability to send
hundreds of pictures at once mo G's
video calling and super security
features scammers said this app had been
previously available only to celebrities
so those who wanted to join the high
society followed the link to the
download page on the app website and got
their Mobile's infected with malware
that malware could steal data and track
movements and activity of those using it
later the same year scammers sent out
messages offering 100 great britain
pounds around 100 $30 gift vouchers for
sands berries a chain of supermarkets in
the UK messages had malicious links in
them following which helped criminals to
collect personal data install tracking
cookies and advertising browser
extensions to the victims phones
[Music]
now please pay close attention to what
we are about to tell you if you get the
following message via whatsapp delete it
immediately and don't do what it wants
you to your subscription has expired to
verify your account and purchase a
lifetime subscription for just point 99
great britain pounds simply tap on this
link it might be put into slightly
different words but the idea remains the
same
whatsapp wants you to pay for using it
and it is officially a scam we know you
want to keep whatsapp on your phone and
you might be okay with paying that
little amount of money for the joy of it
but please don't do it instead disregard
the message delete it and block the
center why do many people believe it
because if you have been using whatsapp
for a few years you probably remember
there used to be a subscription fee of
around 99 cents however after whatsapp
had been purchased by Facebook it became
free it is so since January 2016 and it
is unlikely to change anytime soon
why is following the link dangerous you
might think paying those 99 cents is not
going to do much harm to your budget
well it is not what the criminals
actually want from you they are after
all the money you have on your bank
account if you follow the link in the
message you will be asked to update your
payment information if you do so you
voluntarily hand over your bank account
to criminals it sounds terrible right
the good news is you can protect
yourself from all this by following some
easy tips
first here is what whatsapp itself
recommends you should look out for the
following points when you suspect a
fraud the center is reassuring you he is
affiliated with whatsapp the message is
telling you it afford it to others the
message claims that if you forward it
you can avoid account suspension and
other types of electronic punishment the
message promises you a reward or gift
from whatsapp or other companies
moreover we have put together a list of
five things you should keep in mind not
to become a victim of whatsapp fraud
[Music]
number five whatsapp is free and it does
not want you to forward messages to
other people
[Music]
99% of the messages you are asked afford
in whatsapp are spam we often do it
because it is a matter of seconds
however forwarding a message cannot do
anyone much good except for the scammers
a famous whatsapp hoax made people
forward a certain message to ten other
users saying they will be free from new
subscription fees if they do it just
think of it
how can forwarding messages save a
company from the financial crisis if
there is ever a subscription fee
everyone will have to pay it no matter
if you forward messages or not some
scammers go creative and invent new apps
founders names they send messages on
their fake behalf some David Dee's sure
tech for example used to threaten to
deactivate all inactive users to make
room for new efficient subscribers
people were promised they would remain
free users and get the app icon change
color into blue or red if they informed
ten others on their contact list
The Matrix is everywhere real whatsapp
management never wants you to afford
anything remember
number four never click the links and
whatsapp messages forward to you without
double-checking even if it comes from a
known research
[Music]
if the company that is offering you an
amazing deal and what's that message
sounds familiar to you there's a good
chance the scammers know it as well in
other words they might use that
company's name to make it look legit
and have you follow the link trusting
the name it might be real though to find
out if it is so simply google it
only believe official company websites
or even make a phone call to be sure
chances are you will find many similar
requests or news of scam online number
three you receive an official message
from whatsapp confirm its authenticity
with them
[Music]
the best way to stay away from hoax
messages from whatsapp and viruses is to
check with them you can describe your
problem in the contact us tab or use the
contact email at their official website
whatsapp is also interested in becoming
a safer place so that they will
appreciate your contribution to fighting
scammers
number two messages from unknown people
with downloadable content from unknown
are likely to be infected
do you have spam protection and
antivirus installed on your smartphone
if you don't it is a great idea not to
download anything which comes from a
link in a whatsapp message such content
will eat up your mobile data take up
your smartphone space and it can even
get access to your personal data the
best and only safe place to get a valid
app is App Store or Google Play Store
[Music]
number one if you are unsure if the
message you receive is real or has safe
content but it comes from someone you
know cross-check with today many of us
find it easier to click or do whatever
the message is telling you than to talk
to the sender this is how fraud chains
grow so before taking any action talk to
the person who sent the message to you
ask them if they really sent you the
message or forwarded it without checking
the source while whatsapp is doing its
best to create and ensure a safe
communication space some scammers still
manage to break their defense so the
best thing you can do is stay alert and
follow these simple rules let us know if
you like this video hit the easy and
safe like button safe you can trust us
subscribe to our channel to join us on
the bright side
[Music]